# Task 2: Distributed System

A distributed system for fetching information about GitHub repositories. This project evolves the CLI tool from Task 1 into a microservices architecture consisting of an API Gateway and a Collector service.

## Architecture

The project consists of two microservices that communicate via gRPC. Both services are implemented using **Clean Architecture** principles. Swagger documentation automatically generated and available at `/swagger/index.html`. Correct gRPC status codes generated by the Collector and reliably mapped to HTTP status codes in the API Gateway.

### 1. Collector Service

- Acts as a gRPC server.
- Encapsulates the logic of working with the GitHub API (reusing logic from Task 1).
- Receives requests containing repository data (owner/repo) and returns detailed information about it.

### 2. API Gateway Service

- Acts as a REST server for external clients and a gRPC client internally.
- Accepts external HTTP requests.
- Forwards requests to the Collector service via gRPC.
- Provides a Swagger (OpenAPI) specification and UI for testing endpoints.

## Extracted Information

The system returns the following information in JSON format:

- Repository owner and name
- Description
- Creation date
- Count of stars
- Count of forks

## Usage

### Generating Protobuf Files

Before running the application (if you made changes to `.proto` files), you need to regenerate the gRPC code.

Navigate to the `proto` folder and use the provided `Makefile`:

```shell
cd proto
make all
cd ..
```

> Requires `protoc` to be installed on your machine.

### Running via Docker (Recommended)

The easiest way to start both microservices together is by using Docker Compose.

```shell
docker compose up --build
```

This will start both the Collector and API Gateway on the ports specified in your configuration.

### Running Manually (Locally)

If you prefer to run the services without Docker, you will need two separate terminal sessions.

**Terminal 1 (Run Collector):**

```shell
cd collector
go run cmd/app/main.go
```

**Terminal 2 (Run API Gateway):**

```shell
cd api_gateway
go run cmd/app/main.go
```

### Swagger Documentation

Once the API Gateway is running, you can access the Swagger UI directly in your browser to test the API:

```md
http://localhost:<API_GATEWAY_PORT>/swagger/index.html
```

> Don't forget to run `cd api_gateway && swag init -g cmd/app/main.go --parseDependency --parseInternal` inside the root directory if you update API comments.
